<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../styles.css">

# ACL
Access Control Lists
Primarily used for traffic filtering based on predefined rules on network devices.
An ACL is a set of rules that determine what traffic is allowed or denied on a network device, such as a router or a switch.
ACLs can filter traffic based on various criteria, including IP addresses, protocols, and port numbers.

## Types
- Standard ACLs: These filter traffic based solely on source IP addresses.
- Extended ACLs: These provide more granular control by allowing filtering based on source and destination IP addresses, protocols (TCP, UDP, ICMP), and port numbers.


# Firewall
Provide comprehensive security by monitoring and controlling traffic, often with advanced features.
A firewall is a security device or software that monitors and controls incoming and outgoing network traffic based on predetermined security rules.
Firewalls can be hardware-based, software-based, or a combination of both.

## Stateful vs. Stateless
- Stateless Firewalls: These make decisions based on individual packets without considering the state of the connection.
- Stateful Firewalls: These track the state of active connections and make decisions based on the context of the traffic.

## Advanced Features
Many firewalls offer additional features such as intrusion detection and prevention systems (IDPS), 
virtual private network (VPN) support, and application-layer filtering.

## Commands
``` Shell
# check if ufw is installed and active
sudo ufw status

# Active the ufw
sudo ufw enable

# Inactive the ufw
sudo ufw disable

# Create a rule with opening a specific port
# E.g. ufw allow 1883
sudo ufw allow {PORT_NUMBER}

# Create a rule with opening a specific port for a specific protocol
# E.g. ufw allow 1883/tcp
sudo ufw allow {PORT_NUMBER}/{PROTOCOL}

# Remove a rule
# E.g. ufw delete allow 1883
sudo ufw delete allow {PORT_NUMBER}
```

# iptables
``` Shell
# Show the current rules to verify changes
sudo iptables -L -n -v

# Format: sudo iptables {-A/-D} {INPUT/OUTPUT/FORWARD} -p {PROTOCOL} [--dport {PORT}] [--sport {PORT}] -j {ACCEPT/DROP}
# -A add, -D Delete
# INPUT: It is used for packets that are destined for the local system.
# OUTPUT: It is used for packets that are generated by the local system and are being sent out.
# FORWARD: It is used for packets that are being routed through the local system but are not destined for it.

# Add the rule
sudo iptables -A INPUT -p tcp --dport 1883 -j ACCEPT

# Remove the rule
sudo iptables -D INPUT -p tcp --dport 1883 -j ACCEPT

# Save the changes
sudo iptables-save

```

# managing customer premises equipment (CPE) in broadband networks.
## TR369 (Application Layer Communications for CPE)
- Purpose:
    Introduces a framework for managing CPE devices using application layer protocols, enhancing the capabilities of TR-069.
- Features:
  - Enhanced Management:
        Provides a more flexible and extensible management framework compared to TR-069.
  - Support for Multiple Protocols:
        Allows the use of various application layer protocols (e.g., HTTP/2, WebSockets) for communication.
  - Data Model Flexibility:
        Supports a more dynamic and extensible data model, enabling easier updates and additions of new features.
  - Improved Performance:
        Aims to reduce latency and improve the efficiency of device management operations.
  - Interoperability with TR-069:
        Designed to work alongside TR-069, allowing for a gradual transition to the new framework.

## TR181 (User Services Profile)
- Purpose:
    Defines a data model for user services and their associated parameters, focusing on the services provided to end-users.
- Features:
  - Service Data Model:
        Provides a structured way to represent user services, including broadband, voice, video, and data services.
  - Quality of Service (QoS):
        Includes parameters for managing QoS for different services to ensure performance and reliability.
  - Service Configuration:
        Allows for the configuration of user services, including settings for VoIP, IPTV, and internet access.
  - User Experience Monitoring:
        Supports monitoring of user experience metrics to help service providers improve service quality.
  - Interoperability:
        Ensures compatibility with various service types and devices, facilitating integration across different platforms.

## TR069 (CWMP, CPE WAN Management Protocol)
- Purpose:
    Defines a protocol for remote management of CPE devices, such as routers and gateways, in broadband networks.
- Features:
  - Device Management:
        Allows service providers to manage devices remotely, including configuration, monitoring, and diagnostics.
  - Automatic Configuration:
        Supports automatic provisioning of devices when they connect to the network.
  - Firmware Management:
        Enables remote firmware upgrades and updates.
  - Event Notification:
        Provides mechanisms for devices to notify the management system of events (e.g., status changes).
  - Data Model:
        Uses a hierarchical data model (XML-based) to represent device parameters and settings.
  - Security:
        Implements security features such as authentication and encryption for secure communication.

